# API changelog for epoch 0.x.x

This file describes the changes made to the API during the development.
It is sorted in reverse chronological order.

For the most up to date API description please see the specification directly.
This serves only for developers to find the changes better.

## Unpublished

### Remove deprecated endpoints
The duplicated (deprecated) endpoints in v0.9.15 are removed.
Only the endpoints under `/webapp/` or `/api/v1/` are working in the future.
See also [the section](#split-and-rename-api-endpoints).

### Fix OpenAPI format specification
There were some minor flaws and typos in the spec file.
These flaws caused some code generation tools to fail or produce incomplete results.

The fixture of these issues should not be critical as these are mainly cosmetic and will __not__ change the actual transmitted data.

### Removed some typos
Some typos in the API description was fixed.
This does not change any behavior in the server but describes the actual transmitted data more precise.

Unless you use code generation, this will not affect you.

### Add operation IDs
In accordance with [#1421](https://github.com/nextcloud/cookbook/issues/1421) the ids of all operations in the external API are defined.
This should make it simpler to create clients using code generation techniques.

If the `operaionId` field is not used, this should not change anything.
Otherwise, the names of the methods might need updating.


## Version 0.1.0 - cookbook v0.9.15 - 2022-09-08

See [API specification](../0.1.0/index.html)

### Split and rename API endpoints
There is a security issue with the previous API version 0.4.0, see [this description](https://github.com/nextcloud/cookbook/issues/1179).
As a result, **all** endpoints need a renaming to be able to  fix the security issue.

All publicly available endpoints are now located under the `/api/v1` prefix.
Endpoints were prefixed with either `/api/v1` (if not already prefixed by `/api`) or the `/api` was replaced by `/api/v1` in all URLs.

The behavior of the endpoints was not changed.


## Version 0.0.4 - cookbook v0.9.13 - 2022-07-02

See [API specification](../0.0.4/index.html)

### Remove old API endpoints
The endpoints `GET` on `/recipes/create` and `PUT` on `/recipes/{id}/edit` are deprecated and no longer working.
These are just removed to clean up the api endpoint list.

## Version 0.0.3 - cookbook v0.9.12 - 2022-05-12

See [API specification](../0.0.3/index.html)

### Allow the client to specify the accepted image types
The client was not able to specify the compatible image types.
The endpoint `/recipes/{id}/image` just served whatever format was available, be it JPG or SVG.

The endpoint now respects the `Accept` request header and does not send a SVG if only JPGs are requested explicitly.
If no matching file type was found, a status of 406 is returned.

This affects the following API endpoints:
- `GET` in `/recipes/{id}/image` can return 406

Related issues: [#954](https://github.com/nextcloud/cookbook/issues/954)

### Prevent adding of recipes with no name
We are currently storing the recipes in a folder according to the recipe name.
If no name was provided, this breaks our storage backend.
Until now, a 500 error was returned.
This was changed to be 422 with some useful error handling.

This affects the following API endpoints:
- `POST` on `/api/recipes` can return 422
- `PUT` on `/api/recipes/{id}` can return 422

Related issues: [#923](https://github.com/nextcloud/cookbook/issues/923)

## Version 0.0.2

See [API specification](../0.0.2/index.html)

This version was the first version to be well documented.
It was called 0.0.2 as 0.0.1 would be the (undocumented) initial API structure.
So, please consider this the fist stable API version.

Additionally, some API endpoints were deprecated/removed.
They were not related to a REST-based APi but the ancient multi-page site approach.
These endpoints were non-functional anyways.
